WELCOME EVERYONE TO THE APRIL
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
.
>> I'M CANDICE BRIER,
CHAIRPERSON OF THE ZONING BUT
REALLY IF WE'RE GOING TO DO
THIS AGAIN, I'M CANDICE PRIOR,
CHAIRPERSON OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
>> THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
IS A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER
BOARD NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR
AND APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL
FIRST PEOPLE HERE FROM PLANNING
SERVICES REPRESENTED TONIGHT BY
CHARLIE COLLINS THEN THE
APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING THE
PUBLIC COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS WE ASK
QUESTIONS OF EITHER THE CITY OR
THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY ANY
QUALIFIED PARTY WHO
IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL CANDICE BREYER I AM
HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE DAVE
DEVOTEE PARTY HERE PERILOUS
KOSKIE JULIE WETHERBEE HERE
DREW DANZON MIKE DANIEL DERMO
ECKMANN HERE CHRISTINA KUCIK.
WE HAVE A QUORUM MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> I WILL NOTE BRIEFLY THAT THE
SECOND ITEM ON OUR AGENDA THREE
THREE ONE ZERO WASHTENAW AVENUE
HAS BEEN POSTPONED.
SO WE WILL TAKE ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT TONIGHT IF ANYONE'S
HERE ON THAT PETITION.
BUT IT WILL BE NOTICED AND
THEY'LL BE IN A PUBLIC HEARING
AND CONSIDERATION OF THAT LATER
LIKELY NEXT MONTH.
THAT SAID, ANOTHER ANY COMMENTS
OR QUESTIONS ON THE AGENDA?
>> I HAVE MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOTION FROM TADGH,
SUPPORT FROM JULIE IN FAVOR SAY
AY OPPOSED MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES WE HAVE
MINUTES FROM THE MARCH 26, 2012
FIVE ZEBA MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY CORRECTIONS
QUESTIONS COMMENTS ON THOSE
MINUTES THAT DRIVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES?
THANK YOU, PATTY.
SUPPORT, SUPPORT, SUPPORT FROM
DAVE IN FAVOR SAY I I OPPOSED
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS.
WE HAVE PETITIONS QUBA TWENTY
FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE ZERO
NINE ONE ZERO BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
CHARLIE ZIBA TO FIVE ZERO ZERO
ONE ZERO NINE TEN BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE JAMES JOHNSON
REPRESENTING THE DBS GROUP IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF THIRTY
EIGHT POINT SEVEN THREE SQUARE
FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT TWO
FOUR DASH THREE OTHER MIXED USE
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
PERMANENT SIGNS.
THE TOTAL SIGNED PACKAGE
INCLUDE SEVEN WALL SIGNS FOR A
NEW RETAIL BROCHURE AT THE
BRIARWOOD MALL THE PROPERTY
OF ZONES C TO BE BUSINESS
SERVICE DISTRICT.
THIS SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
LOCATED WEST OF ST. STREET
NORTH OF NINETY FOUR IN THE
MOUNTS CREEK WATERSHED.
THE ORIGINAL SITE PLANNED FOR
BRIARWOOD MALL WAS APPROVED IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY TWO.
THE CURRENT REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT INCLUDES THREE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FOUR MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN A FOUR
STORY BUILDING NEXT TO A TWO
STOREY GROCERY STORE, A TWO
STOREY RETAIL STORE AND AN
ADJACENT SPORTING FIELD TABLE
FIVE POINT TWO FOUR DASH THREE
OTHER MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
PERMANENT SIGNS LIMIT SIGN AREA
TO A MAXIMUM TWO HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET.
THE APPLICANT REQUESTS A
VARIANCE OF THIRTY EIGHT POINT
SEVEN THREE SQUARE FEET MORE
THAN THE ALLOWED TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET WHICH INCLUDES TWO
HUNDRED AND THIRTY EIGHT POINT
SEVEN THREE TOTAL SQUARE FEET
OF SCENERY.
THE SAME PACKAGE INCLUDES THE
FOLLOWING WALL SILENCE ONE
HARVEST'S MARKET LOGO SIGN
SIXTY THREE POINT SIX TWO
SQUARE FEET TO HARVEST MARKET
IDENTIFY SIGN SIXTY NINE POINT
TWO SEVEN SQUARE FEET THREE
WELCOME SIGN TWENTY THREE POINT
THREE THREE SQUARE FEET FOUR
PARCEL PICKUP SIGN NINETEEN
POINT FOUR ONE SQUARE FEET FIVE
AND SIX TWO FARMHOUSE
RESTAURANT SIGNS FIVE POINT TWO
SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND THIRTY
FOUR POINT SIX TWO SQUARE FEET
RESPECTIVELY AND SEVEN
COFFEE WINDOW SIGN TWO POINT
TWO NINE SQUARE FEET SHOULD BE
NOTED THE HEIGHT VARIANCE
REFERENCED IN THE PACKET IS NO
LONGER APPLICABLE.
THE BUILDING IS FORTY FIVE FEET
IN HEIGHT TO THE MIDPOINT
THEREFORE SIGNAGE IS ALLOWED IN
THE UPPER MOST FIFTEEN FEET
ACCORDING TO TABLE FIVE POINT
TO FOUR STATUTORY AND THAT'S
ALL FROM THE STAFF REPORT.
>> I WILL START THE
PRESENTATION.
>> HERE'S THE ZONING MAP
HIGHLIGHTING THE PARCEL OF OUR
MALL WHERE THIS IS BEING WHERE
THESE WALL SIGNS WILL BE
CONSTRUCTED.
HERE'S AN AERIAL MAP ZOOMED IN
.
HERE'S A SITE PLAN WITH EACH
OF THE PROPOSED SIGNS ON THE
RIGHT HAND SIDE HERE IS THE
HARVEST MARKET SIGN LOCATED
NEAR THE TOP OF THE PROPOSED
STRUCTURE.
WELCOME SIGN PARCEL PICKUP
FARMHOUSE RESTAURANT ONCE AGAIN
FARMHOUSE RESTAURANT
COFFEE WINDOW.
AND HERE ARE PHOTOS TAKEN FROM
STAFF
AND THAT IS ALL.
>> THANK YOU CHARLIE.
QUESTIONS FOR STAFF.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD WILL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
>> HELLO, I'M JOHNSON WITH
JOHNSON SIGN COMPANY
.
I THINK OTHER THAN WHAT THE HAS
BEEN NOTED IN THE RESPONSE I
HAVE FOUR OTHER AREAS I WANTED
TO TOUCH BASE WITH ON THIS AS
WE THINK OF PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES YOU LOOK AT THE
FIRST ONE I THINK THIS THIS
FACILITY COULD BE ALMOST
CONSIDERED AS OPERATING AS TWO
SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
YOU KNOW, THEY'VE GOT THE
MARKET AND THEY'VE GOT THE
RESTAURANT AND THEY HAVE
SEPARATE ENTRANCES SO THAT
MIGHT REQUIRE A LITTLE BIT MORE
SIGNAGE THERE TO I THINK THE
THE STORE FRONT SET BACK
CONSIDERABLE DISTANCE FROM THE
MAIN ROAD FROM BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE.
IT'S EIGHT HUNDRED FEET TO NINE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET BECAUSE
WHERE THE CARS ARE GOING TO BE
SEEING THE ACTUAL BUILDING
WHICH FITTING BODY ONCE I'VE
GOT THESE MARKED OUT ON HERE
ANYBODY WANTS TO SEE WHERE WE
PICKED UP THOSE DIMENSIONS FROM
?
>> AND I THINK THEN AS YOU ALL
KNOW, THE VIEW OF THE STORE
FRONT WILL ALSO BE BLOCKED BY
THE NEW FOUR STORY BUILDING
THAT'S CURRENTLY BEING
CONSTRUCTED THERE.
>> AND THEN IF I LOOK AT REALLY
YOU KNOW, THE THREE OF THE
SIGNS THE WELCOME THE PARCEL
PICKUP IN THE COFFEE WINDOW
SIDE COULD BE CONSIDERED
DIRECTIONAL OR WAYFINDING, YOU
KNOW, ELEMENT NOT NECESSARILY A
SIGN ELEMENT.
THESE ESSENTIAL IDENTIFICATION
ELEMENTS AMOUNT TO LIKE FORTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET THOSE THREE.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THAT I REALLY
DON'T THINK THAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR MORE THAN THE INTENT OF THE
ORDINANCE.
IF YOU TOOK THAT FORTY FIVE
SQUARE FEET AWAY FROM WHAT IS
NEEDED TO IDENTIFY THOSE AREA
AND ESTHETICALLY THE SAME
PACKAGE LOOKS RELATIVELY SMALL
WHEN YOU LOOK AT YOUR YOU KNOW,
THE ELEVATION DRAWINGS TO SO
THOSE ARE JUST FOUR OF THE
THINGS THAT I WANTED TO TOUCH
BASE WITH.
YOU KNOW, AGAIN IS IS YOU KNOW,
YOU COULD LOOK AT THIS TWO
BUSINESSES YOU COULD LOOK AT,
YOU KNOW, THE CONSIDERABLE
SETBACK AND EVEN THE NEED FOR
THOSE WAYFINDING THINGS TO GET
TO THE APPROPRIATE AREA.
>> SO I DON'T THINK IT'S WORTH
ME GOING OVER EVERYTHING ELSE
THAT WAS PUT IN THE YOU KNOW,
THE APPROVAL THAT YOU GUYS
ALREADY HAVE COPIES ANY
QUESTIONS TO ME?
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS TODD.
MR JOHNSON, I DO HAVE SEVERAL
QUESTIONS.
SO IS THE SAME AS BEING
PROPOSED FOR THE BLIER HARVEST
MARKET THE SAME SIZE SIGNAGE,
EVEN FOOD.
THREE OTHER STORES THAT I KNOW
FOR EXAMPLE OF CHAMPAIGN,
ILLINOIS BUILT IN OTHER WORDS
IS THE SIZE BEING PRESENTED
BECAUSE THE CLOVER DIRECTED
RATHER THAN HAVING BEEN
CUSTOMIZED TO THIS SITE YOU
KNOW I REALLY DON'T HAVE THOSE
RECORDS TO KNOW.
I'VE SEEN PHOTOS OF THE OTHER
ONES BUT I REALLY DON'T KNOW
THEIR SIZES SO I CAN'T REALLY
ANSWER THAT TO SEE IF IT'S
CUSTOM.
I KNOW WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
PICTURES THEY SURE RESEMBLE IT
IN LOOKING AT THE FIRST
CRITERIA AND PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES THE YOU WILL
RECOVER FROM THE APPLICATION
MAKES THE CLAIM THAT THE LARGER
SIZE WILL AVOID UNNECESSARY
TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
I READ THAT AS AN OPINION YOU
REALLY DON'T HAVE ANY FACTUAL
SUPPORT FOR.
THAT'S THE A BIGGER SCIENCE IS
GOING TO MAKE TRAFFIC
CONGESTION.
I KNOW THE ENTIRE AREA IS VERY
GOOD TEDIOUS.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THE WHOLE POINT
THAT WHO FELT IT WAS IT WAS
MAKING THAT YOU KNOW, YOU NEED
IT TO BE READABLE IN ORDER TO
BE VISIBLE TO HELP WITH THE
CONGESTION OF THE TRAFFIC.
BUT IN THE SECOND CRITERION
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES THE
THERE'S AN ASSERTION THE
SMALLER SIGNAGE INADEQUATE AND
CREATE CONFUSION AND CONGESTION
AROUND THE NEW DEVELOPMENT.
>> CAN YOU EXPLAIN HOW THAT I
THINK THE THOUGHT IS BEHIND
THAT AND AS YOU CAN SEE THE
SIGNS ARE ALL RELATIVELY SMALL
AS IT IS BUT YOU NEED TO BE
ABLE TO DIRECT WHICH ENTRANCES
THEY NEED TO GO TO AND WHERE
THEY SHOULD EVEN PARK.
AND IF WE BRING UP THAT MAJOR
FRONT ELEVATION DRAWING AND IF
YOU LOOK AT THAT AGAIN, YOU CAN
IT'S STILL RELATIVELY SMALL AND
I THINK THAT IT'S NEEDED JUST
TO GET THE PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT
AREAS AND THEN STAY IN.
THE HARDEST MARKET IS A VERY
UPSCALE MARKET.
YES.
YEAH, OK.
I KNOW MY WIFE'S EXCITED FOR IT
TO GET HERE.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY
NICE THAT IN THIS WHOEVER CHOSE
CHOSEN OVER I THINK DID WELL.
I LIVE IN NORTHEAST ANN ARBOR.
YOU MAY KNOW YEARS AGO THERE
WAS SOMETHING CALLED THE
MERCHANT YOU KNOW WHICH
MOVED
IN TO RIGHT WRITE WHERE FATHER
JACKSON AND KIEWA
AND PEOPLE
FROM ALL OVER THE CITY OVER
ACROSS TOWN SHOPPING VIRTUALLY.
YEAH.
WHOLEFOODS POPINJAY AND THE
MESCLUN AND IT WAS EMPTY FOR
THE SHOWS THERE AND FOR GROCERY
SHOPPING ARE PEOPLE ARE WILLING
TO TRAVEL LONG DISTANCES.
I DON'T THINK KROGER IS GOING
TO BE YOUR COMPETITION.
FOOD IS DOWN, YOU KNOW, IN
EVERY CITY AND IN THE END
OF EISENHAUER COMPETITIONS AND
THE PEOPLE WHO RAN DENHA AS
SOON AS THEY COVENANT BUT YET
THEY OPENED UP THE THROUGH
MARKET THERE TOO.
THAT'S PROBABLY THE BUT THIS IS
A TOWN WHERE PEOPLE WILL DRIVE
AND GROCERY STORES.
I SUBMIT THAT ONCE YOU GET
AHEAD OF YOUR GROCERIES AT A
CERTAIN POINT IT DOESN'T REALLY
MATTER.
YOU'RE NOT LOOKING AT THE
SIGNS, YOU KNOW, WITH
GROCERIES, GROCERY STORES.
>> WOULDN'T YOU AGREE WITH THAT
SOMEWHAT.
BUT I DO KNOW LIKE I LIVE IN
JACKSON AND I KNOW THAT WE
TRAVEL TO GO TO THE TRADER
JOE'S AND WHOLE FOODS BECAUSE
THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
SO IT'S A MATTER OF TRYING TO
FIND IT AND I THINK THE SUCCESS
TO THIS BUSINESS IN THE
BEGINNING TO IS TO BE ABLE TO
DIRECT PEOPLE TO THE RIGHT
LOCATION, YOU KNOW, AND GET
THEM THERE.
SO YOU KNOW, PEOPLE SAY I IT'S
SOMEWHERE IN BRIARWOOD AND
BEING YOU KNOW, LIKE WHEN
YOU'RE OUT ON THAT ONE ROAD
YOU'RE NINE HUNDRED FEET FROM
THAT AND IT'S YOU KNOW AND IF
YOU LOOK AT THAT ELEVATION, YOU
KNOW, IT'S NOT REAL READABLE
NOW YOU KNOW, IT COULD EVEN BE
BIGGER TO BE MORE READABLE BUT
FROM THAT DISTANCE.
BUT ONE LAST QUESTION.
YES.
SO THE AMOUNT IS ACTUALLY
SQUARE FOOT WHAT AMOUNTS TO
ABOUT NINETEEN PERCENT WHICH IS
NOT NOT A LOT BUT YOUR YOUR
CLIENT'S CONTENTION I GUESS IS
THAT UNLESS THEY GET THAT EXTRA
NINETEEN PERCENT THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE DISADVANTAGED IN
TERMS OF BUSINESS AND I THINK
SOME OF IT WOULD BE SOME OF THE
OTHER ONES LIKE I MENTIONED
HERE YOU'VE YOU'RE WELCOME.
YOU GOT YOUR PARCEL PICK UP YOU
GOT YOUR COFFEE WINDOW THOSE
THREE ALONE COME IN TO FORTY
FIVE SQUARE FOOT.
IF THEY ELIMINATED THAT THEN IT
WOULD BE OK BUT THEY FEEL THOSE
ARE REALLY NEEDED TO DIRECT THE
PEOPLE.
>> YOU KNOW THAT'S NOT MORE
OF A MEANS OF TRYING TO GET YOU
TO SHOP THERE AND TO SELL MORE
.
THAT'S JUST A MEANS OF TRYING
TO GET YOU TO THE RIGHT
ENTRANCES IN THE RIGHT PLACES
LIKE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
PETITIONING YOUR THOUGHTS ON
WHAT I'VE GOT HERE IS I'VE GOT
THE GIST OF JUST YOU KNOW, LIKE
THAT WE HAVE TO SHOW THAT BEING
THERE TO SEE THEM COMING IN
FROM HERE IN THIS DIRECTION,
YOU KNOW, NEXT NINE MONTHS AS
WE'RE COMING AROUND TO SEE
CONSIDERABLE INSTITUTIONAL YEAH
.
DO YOU SEE YOUR POINT?
SOMEONE'S GOING ONE WAY AND ONE
FROM THE OTHER BACK AND YOU ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL OPEN A PUBLIC HEARING IF
THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION.
IF YOU ARE HERE IN PERSON,
NOW'S YOUR CHANCE.
PLEASE COME UP IF ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ARE USE THE RIGHT
HAND FUNCTION
.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU JOHN.
WHAT THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
SO I GUESS I HAVE A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION FIRST HALF THAT MAYBE
IT'S OBVIOUS BUT WE DON'T MAKE
ANY THERE'S NO DISTINGUISHING
BETWEEN WAYFINDING SIGNS AND
BRANDING SIGNS.
IT'S ALL JUST ONE BIG CATEGORY
OF SIGN RIGHT?
>> YES, I BELIEVE THAT'S
CORRECT.
WAYFINDING AND WHAT SIGNS WOULD
ALL COUNT TOWARDS THAT TOTAL
TYPICALLY TWO HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT ALONE.
>> OK, THANKS.
SO IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE THERE'S
STILL A LOT OF I MEAN YOU COULD
DITCH THE WELCOME SIGN FOR
EXAMPLE AND GET MUCH CLOSER TO
THE YOU KNOW, TO THE STANDARD
AND STILL BE ABLE TO SEE IT
FROM A DISTANCE AND FROM THE
STREET.
SO I GUESS I'M NOT REALLY
FEELING LIKE IT'S KIND OF THE
MINIMUM VARIANCE REQUIRED TO
GET WHAT THEY WANT.
THE WELCOME KIND OF SEEMS LIKE
A NICE TO HAVE SO I DON'T KNOW
DAVE.
I ACTUALLY AGREE WITH THAT.
I THINK THAT WALTHAMSTOW YEAH
THAT'S THE YEAH I DO HAVE A
QUESTION.
YEAH.
SOMETHING THE V IS THE
RESTAURANT AND COFFEE .
YEAH.
STRIKE ME AS A DIFFERENT
BUSINESS EVEN THOUGH IT MAY BE
OWNED BY THE SAME OPERATOR AND
I'M JUST WONDERING IF THESE
WERE IN FACT TWO DIFFERENT
BUSINESSES WOULD THEY SIGNAGE
BREAK OUT DIFFERENTLY LIKE FOR
ONE BUSINESS YOU COULD HAVE
ACTUALLY NO AND THE OTHER
BUSINESS COULD HAVE THERE
THERE'S JUST ONE IF THEY IF
THEY WERE BUSINESSES IF THEY
WEREN'T COMING IN ONE AFTER CAN
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG BUT I
BELIEVE SINCE THIS IS THE SAME
ADDRESS THEY WOULD ALL COME
TOGETHER FOR THE TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AND IF THEY WERE
SEPARATE PARCELS OF SEPARATE
ADDRESSES THAT WOULD BE THE
CASE WHERE YOU JUST LAID OUT.
YEAH.
A THINGS LIKE TO SAY FIRST MY
WIFE AND I WOULD BE DEFINITELY
DRIVING ACROSS TOWN DOWN THE
ROAD AT THIS POINT NO WE WILL
ONLY DRIVE TO WORK.
IT IS JUST BETTER NOT THE ONLY
PERSON IN THE CBA, THE ZONING
BOARD, THE KIDS WHO HAVE
BUILDING ON MY QUESTIONS TO MR
JOHNSON.
WE ALL KNOW THAT THERE'S AN
APPLE STORE IN BALI IF YOU
DRIVE AROUND THERE IS NO APPLE
SIGN ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE
APPLE STORE IS ALWAYS VERY
CROWDED.
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHERE TO FIND
THE STORE AND I THINK THIS
APPLIES NOT JUST TO PEOPLE WHO
BUY IPHONES OR ONCE YOU GET A
PATTERN OF GROCERY SHOPPING TO
KNOW WHERE THE PLACE IS, THE
SIZE OF THE SIGN ISN'T GOING TO
BE CRITICAL.
I THINK IT'S THESE THINGS WHICH
19 PERCENT NEED THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE AUDITS.
THIS IS BUSINESS WOULD NOT
SUFFER AT ALL AND IF IT SELLS A
LITTLE BUSINESS WORDS THAT I
READ ABOUT IT I THINK MAY BE
VERY BUSY AND IT WON'T DEPEND
ON THE SIZE GIVEN THEM I'M
GOING TO VOTE AGAINST THIS AND
I WOULD NO THAT THE PARTICULAR
CRITERIA THE FIVE THAT I THINK
THEY HAVE A PROBLEM WITH ONE IS
NO.
TWO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES.
I DON'T THINK THEY'VE
DEMONSTRATED THEY REALLY HAVE A
PRACTICAL DIFFICULT IN THAT
THEY WERE FORCED TO SHRINK THE
LITERALLY BY NINETEEN PERCENT
AND NUMBER FIVE, OF COURSE THE
TOUGH ONE IS IF THEY DON'T GET
THE VARIANCE ARE THEY GOING TO
BE UNABLE TO MAKE FULL USE
OF THE PROPERTY?
THE ANSWER IS THEY'RE GOING TO
BE MY I'M NOT SURE BUT I'M VERY
ENTHUSED ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
IT THIS VERY EXCITING I DROVE
BY THERE TODAY AND I'M LOOKING
FORWARD TO CHECKING THE FRUIT
DARYN.
I HAD MY TURNED UP ONE MORE
QUESTION FOR STAFF.
SO THE PICKUP WINDOW THAT SEEMS
LIKE SOMETHING THAT IT'S USEFUL
THEY HAVE A SIGN ON THE WALL
WHERE THE LINK UP IS BUT I'VE
SEEN PLACES WHERE THEY ACTUALLY
JUST PUT SOME STANCHION OUTSIDE
LIKE A CONCRETE BASE WITH A
POLE WITH JUST A SIMPLE FLAG
PICK UP HERE.
WOULD THAT COUNT TOWARDS
DECIDED IF THEY DID SOMETHING
LIKE THAT GENERAL ONE GO
TOWARDS THE SIGNAGE FOR THAT
THERE'S NO SMELL IN THE PARKING
LOT, THINGS LIKE THAT
DIRECTIONAL SIGNS OF THE
PARKING LOT WE DON'T COUNT
THAT'S GENERALLY WALL SIDE THE
FREESTANDING SIGNS FOR BUSINESS
BUSINESS IDS AS WELL.
I'M GOING TO VOTE AGAINST THIS.
I THINK THE WELCOME SIGN IS
UNNECESSARY.
I THINK THERE'S AN ALTERNATIVE
TO THE PICK UP WINDOW SIGN IF
WE WERE ALLOWED TO CONSIDER
THIS AS TWO SEPARATE BUSINESSES
AND ALLOW THE EXTRA SIGNAGE FOR
THE RESTAURANT UNDER THAT
PRETEXT I WOULD POTENTIALLY
VOTE FOR IT.
BUT AS IT STANDS AGAINST IT,
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
ARE WE READY FOR A MOTION THAT
CAN MAKE A MOTION?
THANK YOU DAVE ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
GASHI OR ZERO ONE ZERO NINE ONE
ZERO BRIARWOOD CIRCLE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF THIRTY
EIGHT POINT SEVEN THREE FEET
SQUARE FEET FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT TWENTY FOUR DASH THREE
OTHER MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL SPECIAL PURPOSE
ZONING DISTRICTS PERMANENT
SITES THE SAME PACKAGING GROUP
SIX WALL SIGNS FOR A TOTAL
OF 238 POINT SEVEN THREE FEET
AREA OF FEET OF SITE.
THE SIDES MUST BE INSTALLED PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS THE MOTION
TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DERMO TADGH NO NO NO
DAVE DAVE ALREADY NO CHRISTINA
YES PATTY NO.
>> I ALSO KNOW THE REQUEST IS
DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE
ZERO ZERO ONE ONE
THREE THREE ONE ZERO WASHTENAW
AVENUE.
AS I NOTED THIS PETITION IS
BEING POSTPONED BUT IF THERE IS
ANYONE HERE TO SPEAK ON THIS WE
CAN HEAR YOUR COMMENT AS I
MENTIONED BEFORE, IT WILL BE
NOTICED AGAIN SO YOU WILL HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK ON THIS
AGAIN.
I'LL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE TWO
LETTERS EMAILS OF COMMUNICATION
REGARDING THIS PETITION.
THOSE WILL BE CARRIED FORWARD
TO WHEN THIS APPEARS ON OUR
AGENDA AGAIN.
SO IS THERE ANYONE HERE THAT
WANTS TO SPEAK ON THE CHICLET?
>> SHE'S HAVING DIFFICULTY
HEARING YOU.
YES, SIR.
I CAN MOVE IT FORWARD.
IS IT BETTER SOMEONE WHAT ARE
WE TALKING ABOUT THE RESOLVE
THAT WE KNOW NOT YET BUT THAT
WILL BE NEXT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
OK, MOVING ON NOW TO PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
ONE TWO SIX THREE ZERO S ASHLEY
STREET CHARLIE MARIANO WILL BE
PRESENTING THE STAFF REPORT FOR
THIS CASE RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO THIS IS SIX THIRTY S ASHLEY
STREET ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH
ZERO ZERO TWELVE MARK GRUDER
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS SEEKING A 15 FOOT BUFFER
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TWENTY POINT FOUR PUBLIC
PARK AND RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT BUFFERS.
>> THE VARIANCE IS REQUIRED
ALONG THE WESTERN PROPERTY LINE
FOR FORTY TWO FEET RUNNING
NORTH FROM THE SOUTHWEST CORNER
OF THE PROPERTY AT THE VARIANCE
IS GRANTED IT WILL ALLOW THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A TWO STOREY
FIVE AND FORTY FOUR SQUARE FOOT
DETACHED GARAGE WITH A SECOND
STORY RESIDENTIAL UNIT IN THAT
REQUIRED 15 FOOT BUFFER THE
PROPERTY IS ZONE C TO BE
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT AND
IS WITHIN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE
INTERSECTION OF SOUTH ASHLI AND
WEST MOSELY STREETS.
THE SITE IS CURRENTLY VACANT
AND WAS PREVIOUSLY OCCUPIED BY
URBAN CLEANERS IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION ISSUED A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS TO DEMOLISH
THAT BUILDING AND SINCE
DEMOLITION REMEDIATION HAS BEEN
COMPLETED TO REMOVE ANY GROUND
CONTAMINATION, THE APPLICANTS
ARE PROPOSING TO CONSTRUCT TWO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WITH AN
ATTACHED GARAGE BETWEEN AS WELL
AS A DETACHED GARAGE WITH
ANOTHER RESIDENTIAL UNIT ABOVE
UNIT A WILL BE APPROXIMATELY
TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY TWO SQUARE FEET AND B
WILL BE APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND
AREA BOTH UNITS WILL BE THREE
STORIES IN HEIGHT.
THE DETACHED GARAGE WILL BE TWO
STORIES WITH VEHICLE PARKING ON
THAT FIRST FLOOR AND THEN A ONE
BEDROOM APARTMENT ON THE SECOND
FLOOR.
THE TWO PROPERTIES TO THE WEST
ARE ZONED ARE TO A TWO FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT.
ONE OF THE PROPERTIES IS A
DUPLEX AND THE OTHER IS A
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING.
THE APPLICATION RECEIVED
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
APPROVAL IN OCTOBER TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND IN DECEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
GRANTED A TWENTY SIX FOOT TWO
INCH VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT ONE SEVEN FOR MIXED USE
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONS FOR
THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
DETACHED GARAGE AND THE SECOND
STORY RESIDENTIAL UNIT IN THE
REQUIRED.
SO TONIGHT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE 15 FOOT REQUIRED BUFFER NOT
THE SET BACK AND A SITE PLANNED
FOR THIS IS CURRENTLY UNDER
REVIEW AND THAT WILL GO TO
PLANNING MISSION THEN CHARLIE.
SO YOU CAN SEE THE ZONING MAP
AGAIN WE'RE LOOKING AT C TO BE
AND WE ARE ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL
ZONING WHICH IS WHY THIS 15
FOOT BUFFER IS REQUIRED.
>> HERE IS THE AERIAL AND THEN
JUST ZOOMED IN AGAIN.
THE BUILDING WAS DEMOLISHED.
THARMAN SITE SO THERE IS
NOTHING THERE CURRENTLY
HERE IS
EXISTING CONDITIONS AGAIN
NOTHING ON THE SITE RIGHT NOW
.
HERE ARE THE DRAWINGS THE
PROPOSED LAYOUT.
YOU CAN SEE THE SITE PLAN UNIT
ONE, UNIT TWO AND THE GARAGE
BETWEEN THEM AND THEN ON THE
WEST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY, THE
GARAGE WITH THE RESIDENTIAL
UNIT ABOVE IT ON THAT SECOND
STORY.
SO THIS IS WHERE I CAN GO BACK.
CHARLIE.
SO AS YOU CAN SEE THE
DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT PLAN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT GARAGE
BUILDING AND SO THE VARIANCE
WOULD BE FOR THAT.
FORTY TWO FEET FROM THE NORTH
EDGE OF THE GARAGE ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO THE SOUTH EDGE OF THE
PROPERTY, THERE WILL BE THAT 15
FOOT LANDSCAPE BUFFER NORTH
OF THE GARAGE AND JUST HERE
SOME ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
OF WHAT THAT WILL LOOK LIKE
WITH THE UNITS
RENDERINGS WITH
THE BUILDINGS IN THEIR CONTEXT.
AGAIN, THIS IS ZONED COMMERCIAL
AND IS ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL TO
THE WEST
.
SOME ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
OF THE SOME PLANS OF THE UNITS
MORE PLANS.
THIS ONE IS THE FIRST FLOOR THE
SECOND FLOOR AND THEN THE THIRD
FLOOR JUST FOR THOSE TWO UNITS
SOME ELEVATION DRAWINGS,
RENDERINGS OF THE ELEVATIONS
WHERE ELEVATION
AND THIS IS
WHAT THE SITE CURRENTLY LOOKS
LIKE.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT AND
THESE ARE PHOTOS OF THE SITE
THAT WERE TAKEN BY STAFF.
THESE WERE THE SAME PHOTOS THAT
WERE SHOWN AT THE DECEMBER
MEETING BUT NOTHING HAS CHANGED
ON THE SITE SINCE THEN
AND I
BELIEVE THAT'S EVERYTHING.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FOR STAFF,
TODD?
YES, MISS MELANIE CORCORAN I'M
A LITTLE CONFUSED.
SO THEY WERE HERE AND GOT A 26
FOOT VARIANCE.
DID THEY NOT KNOW ABOUT THE
NEED FOR 15 FOOT VARIANCE THEN
IF THEY DID, WHY DIDN'T THEY DO
IT THEN AND COULD YOU
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN THE TWO
VARIANCES?
YES.
SO THERE WAS A MISUNDERSTANDING
OR MISCOMMUNICATION AND IT
WASN'T CLEAR THAT THE 15 FOOT
BUFFER WOULD BE REQUIRED.
WHEN THEY DID COME TO ZIBA IN
DECEMBER IT WAS CLEAR THAT THEY
WEREN'T GOING TO MEET THE
RESIDENTIAL SET BACK OR THE
REAR SETBACK BACK BECAUSE THEY
WERE ADJACENT THE RESIDENTIAL
ZONING TO THE WEST AND THEN
UPON FURTHER REVIEW WHEN THEY
SUBMITTED FOR THEIR SITE PLAN
IT WAS REALIZED THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO NEED ALSO A SEPARATE
15 FOOT LANDSCAPE BUFFER
BECAUSE THEY'RE ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
SO BOTH OF THESE ARE
REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE THEY ARE
COMMERCIAL ZONING, ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
IT'S NOT BASED ON THE USE.
IT'S BASED ON THE PARCELS AND
HOW THEY'RE ZONED AND THEY'RE
JUST TWO DIFFERENT SECTIONS
OF CODE AND THERE WAS JUST SOME
KIND OF MISUNDERSTANDING OR
MISCOMMUNICATION.
AND SO THEY'RE ASKING
ESSENTIALLY FOR THE SAME THING
TO PUT THAT GARAGE WITH THAT
UNIT WHERE IT IS.
BUT THEY DO NEED THE VARIANCE
FROM A SEPARATE SECTION
OF CODE.
>> I DO HAVE ONE FOLLOW UP
QUESTION.
SO IF WE GRANT THE 15 FOOT
BUFFER VARIANCE, DOES THAT MEAN
THERE'S NO BUFFER BETWEEN THIS
PROPERTY IN THE RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES NEXT DOOR OR WHAT
DOES THAT ACTUALLY MEAN?
>> YEAH, IT MEANS FOR THAT
FORTY TWO FEET.
>> SO JUST FOR THAT SOUTH
WESTERN AREA WHERE THE GARAGE
IS LOCATED THAT THERE WILL BE
THERE WON'T BE THE 15 FOOT
BUFFER I THINK THEY'RE SHOWING
WHAT THE SET BACK THAT WAS
GRANTED.
SO IT'S ABOUT FOUR FEET I
BELIEVE I GUESS I DIDN'T ASK
THE RIGHT QUESTION I IMAGINE A
BUFFER IS A BUNCH OF TREES THAT
YOU CAN'T SEE THROUGH.
SO YOU SOMETHING WALKING IT
IT'S A BUFFER.
SO IT MEANS ESSENTIALLY THAT IT
WOULD BE OPEN BETWEEN THIS NEW
BUILDING AND THE RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING IS THAT CORRECT?
>> YEAH.
I MEAN JUST LOOKING AT THE
PLANS IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
THERE'S GOING TO ANY PLANTINGS
OR ANYTHING IN THAT FOREFOOT
THERE WILL BE THE 15 FOOT
BUFFER ON THE NORTHERN SIDE
OF THE SITE.
BUT THERE AS FAR AS I KNOW FROM
THE PLANS AND MAYBE THE
APPLICANT CAN ANSWER AS WELL IS
THAT THERE'S NO PLANS OR
PLANTINGS IN THAT AREA.
>> JUST TO BE CLEAR THEN WHAT
IF THE VARIANCE IS GRANTED?
THEN IT'LL BE A FOUR FOOT
SEPARATION BETWEEN A
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY IN THIS
BUILDING.
IN THEORY THEY DON'T HAVE TO
PUT ANY PLANTINGS THAT WERE
JUST FOUR FEET, CORRECT?
I COULD GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THEY DIDN'T BEGIN.
OH SORRY.
GO AHEAD CRISTIANA.
YOU SURE THEY DIDN'T MAKE ANY
CHANGES ADJUSTMENTS TO THE
DESIGN FIRM WE SAW IN DECEMBER
TO NOW.
RIGHT.
IT'S THE SAME THERE NO THERE'S
NO THERE MAY BE SOME MINOR
CHANGES AND I THINK THE BIGGEST
ONE IS BECAUSE IT WAS CLEAR
THAT THE FIFTEENTH BUFFER IS
REQUIRED THAT ON THE NORTHERN
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY THEN THERE
WILL BE TREES AND PLANTINGS
WHEREAS I THINK THE DRAWINGS
YOU SAW JUST SHOWED LAWN OK, SO
THAT'S PUTTING IN THAT BUFFER
THERE ON THE NORTH SIDE.
YEAH BUT OTHER THAN THAT ONLY
MINOR CHANGES.
>> OK, SO THE WEST SIDE IS
STILL AS WE IT WAS PRESENTED TO
US YES.
YEAH IT'S ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
PLAN.
>> THANK YOU SO THE BUFFER IS
REQUIRED BECAUSE IT'S ZONED
COMMERCIAL EVEN THOUGH THIS IS
A RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IF IT
WAS ZONED RESIDENTIAL AND WOULD
ALLOW THIS SAME DEVELOPMENT
THEY WOULDN'T NEED A BUFFER
CORRECT.
IS THERE WHAT KIND OF HOOPS
WOULD THEY HAVE TO JUMP THROUGH
TO TO GET A REASONABLE
RESIDENTIAL?
>> IT'D BE VERY COMPLICATED
RIGHT NOW THEIR SITE PLAN IS
JUST GOING INTO PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> THEY WOULD HAVE TO TAKE THIS
TO COUNCIL.
IT WOULD EXTEND THEIR PROCESS
BY A COUPLE OF MONTHS AND IT
WOULD IT WOULD CHANGE THEIR
SUBMISSION.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO ADD THE
REZONING AND IT MAY CHANGE
OTHER ASSET BACK REQUIREMENTS.
WE'D HAVE TO LOOK INTO ANY
OF THE OTHER ZONING CHANGES
THAT WOULD APPLY.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR STAFF
ABOUT
CHRISTINA?
HAVE THERE BEEN ANY LETTERS
COMMITTED FOR THE PROPERTY
DIRECTLY TO THE WEST?
I THOUGHT I RECALLED THE LAST
TIME THAT THERE WERE SOME WE
DID GET ONE LETTER TODAY
THERE'S A THERE'S A
COMMUNICATION IN THE PAC.
I DON'T THINK IT HAS AN ADDRESS
ON IT SO I'M NOT SURE IT JUST
SAYS THAT IT'S FROM A NEIGHBOR.
OH OK.
THAT'S IN SUPPORT OF THE
VARIANCE.
>> I WAS JUST CURIOUS WHAT IF
WHAT WAS COMMUNICATED BACK THEN
IN DECEMBER?
I CAN'T SEEM TO RECALL THAT
THERE'S SOMETHING POSITIVE
ABOUT BUT I'M JUST THAT'S JUST
SPECULATION FROM MY DISTANT
MEMORY FROM FOUR MONTHS AGO.
NOBODY ELSE RECALLS THAT I
CAN'T REMEMBER THANKS, DAVE.
>> ONE MORE QUESTION.
SO YOU SAID THAT THIS HAD GONE
BEFORE A HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION AND THEY GAVE
APPROVAL TO THE SITE PLAN.
CORRECT.
IF THERE WERE GOING TO BE ANY
CHANGE NEWS SINCE IT'S ZONED
COMMERCIAL THEORETICALLY THEY
COULD PUT A COMMERCIAL USE IN
THERE.
WOULD THAT HAVE TO GO TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION?
>> YEAH.
ANY ANY CHANGE IN DESIGN, ANY
NEW CONSTRUCTION, EVEN MINOR
CHANGES THAT THEY MAY MAKE ON
THIS ON THEIR CURRENT DESIGNS
WOULD HAVE TO GO BEFORE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION,
SOME OF THEM MAYBE STAFF
APPROVALS.
SOME OF THEM MAY ACTUALLY NEED
TO GO TO THE COMMISSION BUT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
DOES HAVE PURVIEW OVER AT THE
SITE NO MATTER WHAT HAPPENS TO
IT.
>> SO THEY'RE KIND OF LOCKED
INTO RESIDENTIAL USE UNLESS THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AND THE PLANNING STAFF SIGNED
OFF ON A CHANGE IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION, SIGNED OFF
ON THE DESIGN NOT THE USE
SPECIFICALLY.
RIGHT.
SO WITH THE PLANS THAT THEY
SUBMITTED THEY'RE LOCKED INTO
THIS DESIGN THEY COULD RESUBMIT
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION IF THEY WANTED TO DO
SOMETHING ELSE.
>> SO JUST THEORETICALLY COULD
YOU TAKE ONE OF THESE UNITS
THAT'S SLATED AS A RESIDENTIAL
AND WITHOUT CHANGING A DESIGN
TURN IT INTO A BLIND PIG WITH
SOME EVENING ENTERTAINMENT AND
GO AS LONG AS YOU DON'T MAKE
ANY DESIGN CHANGES?
>> YEAH, AS LONG AS THERE ARE
NO CHANGES TO THE EXTERIOR AND
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION WOULD REVIEW SIGNAGE
AND THINGS LIKE THAT THAT WOULD
GO ON TO THE BUILDING BUT IT
WON'T IT WOULDN'T REGULATE THE
USE.
IT'S JUST THE EXTERIOR OF THE
BUILDING.
>> THE COMMERCIAL USE WOULD
ALLOW THAT.
YES.
YEAH.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR STAFF.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE
PLEASE COME FORWARD, SEND IN
STATE YOUR NAME YOU'LL HAVE
FIVE MINUTES DENHA MILLIONS
OF IN DEVELOPMENT ON THE
BUILDING THE PROJECT MARGUERITA
WAS NOT ABLE TO MAKE IT TONIGHT
SO I'M HERE TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS.
YOU GUYS WENT OUT ON THE
PROJECT ALL RIGHT?
>> YES.
SO THE I'M LOOKING AT THE S
ELEVATION SHOWING THE GARAGE IS
IN A FOUR FOOT SETBACK FROM THE
FLAT LINE WHERE THIS IS SHOWN.
>> IT'S THE SAME AS WHAT IT WAS
DEC ZONING OK, I DON'T SEE THAT
MARKED OFF IS THAT MANY FEET
HERE AND THEN WHAT'S THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN THAT GARAGE
WITH THE AIDOO ABOVE IT AND THE
OTHER STRUCTURES TO THE EAST TO
THE WEST NO TO THESE THE
GARAGES TO THE WEST TO THE
OTHER STRUCTURES.
>> OH YOU MEAN THE DETACHED
GARAGE TO THE RIGHT.
WHAT'S A DECENT I BELIEVE AND
THE OTHER 13 FEET WAS THERE ANY
CONSIDERATION MOTION OR WOOD
CODE ALLOW THAT GARAGE TO HAVE
BEEN ATTACHED?
>> THAT'S A COMPLICATION.
A SITE IS YOU KNOW WE SPENT
ALMOST THREE YEARS TWO AND A
HALF YEARS WORKING WITH A
HISTORIC COMMISSION WITH JOE
SCALING UP THE PROJECT.
RIGHT.
AND ATTACHING SOMETHING THE
MACING DOESN'T FIT WITH THE
CHARACTER OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO THAT'S WHY WE DETACH THE
GARAGE AND THEN ADDING A ABOVE
THE GARAGE ADDING EXTRA HOUSING
IN ANN ARBOR THAT POTENTIALLY
COULD BE MORE AFFORDABLE THAN
SOME OF THE STUFF THAT'S ON THE
MARKET.
SO WE'RE ADDING HOUSING.
WE'RE STAYING IN CHARACTER AND
SCALE THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
RESTRICTED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND
THEN THIS CAVEAT COMMERCIAL
ZONING, EVEN THE USE
OF RESIDENTIAL YOU HAVE TO HAVE
THE BUFFER.
BUT IF THIS WAS OWN RESIDENTIAL
YOU WOULDN'T HAVE TO.
SO THAT'S KIND OF THE CAVEAT
OF THIS CODE THAT THEY'VE
CLEANED UP THIS IS LIKE ONE
LITTLE RANDOM ONCE GREAT WHILE
DEAL THAT STILL HAS TO CONFORM
TO THEM AND THESE ARE GOING TO
BE RENTAL PROPERTIES.
>> THOSE ARE FOR SALE PRODUCT
AND CONDOMINIUMS AND
CONDOMINIUMS DUPLEX CONDOMINIUM
AND THE PROPERTY TO THE WEST.
THAT GARAGE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
THAT PROPERTY LINE IS DRIVEWAY
AND PARKING.
SO IT'S NOT BACKING UP TO ANY
RESIDENTIAL NEXT TO THE
PROPERTY LINE.
IT'S ALL TRAFFIC ON THAT SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY LINE WHERE THE
GARAGES SO YOU KNOW THE GARAGE
IS AT THE NEIGHBOR THE
NEIGHBORING LOT THAT LOT
NEIGHBOR THAT IS ADJACENT TO
THE NEIGHBORING LOFTS DRIVEWAY.
>> CORRECT.
IS WHICH DRIVEWAY PARKING LOT
OK SO DON'T VEHICULAR USE OVER
THERE.
IT'S NOT BACKING UP TO A
RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
>> SO IF I IF I WERE JUST
FOLLOWING UP ON MY SINCE THIS
IS COMMERCIAL ZONE IF I BUY
THIS UNIT AS A THIS CONDO UNIT
CAN I CONVERT IT TO A LITTLE
RESTAURANT, A CAFE AND THIS IS
DESIGNED FOR RESIDENTIAL USE
AND IT'S GOING TO BE BUILT AS A
RESIDENTIAL USE AS IN THE
MASTER BUT A TO TRY IT I COULD
RECONFIGURE IT.
WELL I DON'T GET THE MASTER
WILL LIMIT I CAN DICTATE THE
MASTER TO THE MASTER YOU CAN
LIMIT THE USE OF THE PROPERTY
ONCE IT'S DEVELOPED JUST LIKE
ANY CONDO YOU BUY RIGHT NOW I
UNDERSTAND YOU CAN'T BUT THAT'S
WHY I HAVE MY SPACE ON DETROIT
STREET THE TRIANGLE TRIANGLE
BUILDING THAT DETROIT DIVISION
WHEN I CREATE THAT MACERATED
SELLING UNITS ABOVE MY OFFICE
BELOW IN THAT AGREEMENT WITH
THE BUYER WE PUT IN THERE CAN'T
PUT A COFFEE SHOP OR ANY
COMMERCIAL USE THAT STAYS AS
OFFICE OR CONVERT TO A STUDIO
RESIDENTIAL APARTMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
SO THAT'S THE INTENTION.
THANK YOU PETTY.
THIS IS OR MATTER.
YEAH THAT WAS BACK IN FORGET
THE DAY THOUGH IT'S IN THE
REPORT.
>> WHAT WAS THE.
>> IT WAS OCTOBER TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
YEAH LIKE I SAID THAT WAS TO
FOUR YOUR PROCESS ALMOST THREE
WITH JILL TRYING TO FIND THE
SCALING BEING COMMERCIAL ZONED
IN SCALING A RESIDENTIAL
PROJECT WITHIN THE DISTRICT
THAT WAS TAKEN QUITE A BIT
OF TIME TO RESOLVE IT'S IN
SCALE.
>> I KNEW THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER I GUESS.
>> YEAH, GO AHEAD.
DID YOU ENGAGE NEIGHBORHOOD
RESIDENTS IN A PROCESS TO GET
INPUT FROM THEM ON THE PROCESS
?
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WILL
SUBMIT THOSE MAILERS WERE PUT
OUT AND I DO HAVE A RECORDED
CONVERSATION WITH SOMEONE
MOSADDEQ WAS EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROJECT THAT SOMETHING WAS
BEING DONE WITH ARMON, THAT
IT'S CLEAN, THAT IT'S THAT
SOMETHING'S ACTUALLY HAPPENING
BUT NO NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING OR
NO WASN'T NECESSARILY REQUIRED
BY PLANNING COMMISSION ON THIS
INITIATIVE BECAUSE JOB TO HAVE
POSTCARD NOTIFICATION SENT TO
ME THEY'RE JUST REQUIRED TO
HAVE POST CARD NOTIFICATION
SENT OUT AND ANY RESPONSES THAT
THEY GET THEY'RE REQUIRED TO
SUBMIT BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
PATRICIA?
RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK NOW
IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SEND IN STATE YOUR NAME.
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
>> THREE MINUTES?
YES, SIR.
MY NAME IS KELLY KLINE.
I LIVE AT SIX THIRTY ONE S
FIRST STREET KITTY CORNER FROM
THE ARMIN'S LOT.
I'VE GOT A LONG RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY.
I CONTINUE TO HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS LIVED WHO IS
PROPERTY HAS BEEN ADJACENT AND
I WAS AFFECTED BY THE ARMIN'S
SPILL IF YOU WANT TO CALL IT
THAT.
SO I'M ASSUMING THAT YOU WON'T
BE DIGGING DOWN INTO THE GROUND
WHEN THIS BUILDING HOLDS UP.
YOU KNOW, I'M JUST ASSUMING
BECAUSE I WAS THERE WERE
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS PUT INTO
THAT PROPERTY TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE CONTAMINANT WHICH WAS
PERCHLORATE CLEAN FROM THE DRY
CLEANERS DOESN'T SIT BACK OUT
OF THAT LAND.
I THINK YOU ALL KNOW THAT I
HAVE A SECOND THING I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT.
I SEE THAT ONE OF YOUR FIRST
SLIDES SHOWED THE LOT LINE BUT
ACTUALLY THE PLANNING THE WAY
THE BUILDING WAS MY MY LOT I'M
SORT OF A DIRECTIONAL CHALLENGE
ACTUALLY IT'S TO THE SOUTH
OF MY HOUSE AND MOSTLY IS TO BE
WEST.
NOPE, THAT'S NOT TRUE.
>> YEAH I'M ON FIRST STREET
ANYWAY.
THE WAY YOU HAD THE LOTS
PLANTED ON THERE DOES NOT MATCH
THIS DOES NOT MATCH WHAT'S ON
THE POSTCARD THAT WAS SENT TO
ME.
THERE'S A IT LOOKS LIKE AT SOME
POINT THE PLANNING LINE IS NOT
STRAIGHT WHEREAS ON YOUR
DOCUMENT THE FLAT IT'S PLANTED
STRAIGHT ACROSS HERE IT LOOKS
LIKE EITHER THIS LITTLE LINE
HERE WAS SOLD AT SOME POINT GOD
KNOWS WHAT I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT
IS.
BUT MY POINT IS THAT WHEN I
WENT OUT TO TAKE A LOOK AT MY
FENCE AND I LOOKED AT THE
FENCING THAT WAS PUT UP ON THAT
ARMIN'S PIECE OF PROPERTY,
THERE'S TWELVE FEET THAT
OVERLAPS WITH MY FENCE.
IT'S MORE THAN TWELVE FEET I
BELIEVE COULD EVEN BE THE
FIFTEEN FEET YOU'RE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT FOR THE BUFFER.
NOT SURE BUT IT'S YOUR FENCE
THAT FENCE THAT
NEW FENCE IS
LAYING AGAINST MY FENCE WHICH
OF COURSE WAS DAMAGED BY BY THE
ABATEMENT PEOPLE.
IT'S VERY CONCERNING TO ME.
IT LOOKS LIKE I COULD ACTUALLY
LOSE SOME PROPERTY IN THE STEEL
.
I'M REALLY NOT SURE I I DON'T
PRETEND TO BE ABLE TO READ THIS
THIS IS DIRECTIONAL THINGS BUT
I DID KNOW HOW TO READ THE
FENCES LAYING ON MY FENCE.
>> TWELVE FEET OF IT GENDER
QUESTIONS.
NO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
INTEREST.
>> YES OK.
THANK YOU.
DO I SIGN IN?
YES PLEASE.
OK IF THERE IS ANYONE ELSE WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION PLEASE COME FORWARD.
IF THERE IS ANYONE WHO IS
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISE HIM
BUTTON.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
.
THANK YOU JOHN.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE ONE
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM JOANNA
ABRAHAM.
THERE IS NO ADDRESS LISTED WITH
THAT.
>> THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION DAVE
AND OTHER QUESTION FOR STAFF
THAT THE PERSON WHO SPOKE AT
THE PUBLIC HEARING RAISED A
QUESTION ABOUT FENCE'S WHICH TO
ME SO WE'RE NOT IF WE DO GRANT
A VARIANCE ON THE BUFFERING,
I'M WONDERING WHAT SORT
OF FENCE COULD GO UP BETWEEN
THOSE TWO LINES.
THE LOT THE DEVELOPERS
DEVELOPING IN THE ADJACENT
NEIGHBORING RESIDENTS, WHAT
KIND OF FENCE WOULD BE ALLOWED
THERE?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN WHAT KIND
OF ABOUT 80 PERCENT HIGH HIGH
HIGH 80 PERCENT OR 100 PERCENT
HOPEI THAT WOULD BE PERMITTED
WOULD HAVE TO BE APPROVED WITH
HTC PRIOR TO BEING SUBMITTED
FOR OR APPROVED FOR A PERMIT.
THEY'D HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
DESIGN OF THE MATERIAL AND THE
HYPE SO ANY FENCE WOULD HAVE TO
ALSO GO THROUGH THROUGH THE
PROCESS AS WELL.
>> YEAH.
SO EVEN IF THE EXISTING
NEIGHBOR WHO ALREADY THERE
WANTED TO DO SOMETHING
BUFFERING THEY WOULD HAVE TO
GET THAT APPROVED BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION IF
THAT PROPERTY THAT YOU'RE IF
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY PROPERTY
OWNER NOT THIS PROPERTY, NOT
THE ONE BEING DEVELOPED BUT THE
ENERGY TO THE NORTH, TO THE
WEST, TO THE WEST I'M NOT THAT
ONE'S IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
OR NOT.
>> UM, IT'S ON FIRST AND IT'S
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> THEY WOULD HE'LL HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THE SAME PROCESS
.
THANK CUT.
SO WAS ALLUDED TO SEVERAL TIMES
A NUMBER OF YEARS I THINK IT'S
THREE YEARS IT HAS TAKEN TO
MOVE THIS PROJECT ALONG.
I THINK IT'S EASY LOOKING AT
FENCES IN PARTICULAR FOOTAGE TO
LOSE SIGHT OF TWO THINGS WHICH
LOOM LARGE IN MY MIND.
FIRST OF ALL THIS AREA THE CITY
IS VERY MUCH A BORDER PROPERTY
WITH COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL
BUSY STREETS, EVERYTHING ALL
MIXED.
SO THE STANDARDS AND THE
SENSITIVITY ONE MIGHT APPLY THE
MIDDLE OF A SUBJECT SHOULDN'T I
THINK APPLY WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING
AT A BUNCH OF BORDER PROPERTIES
FROM DISPARATE TYPES AND ZONING
DISTRICTS ALL COMING TOGETHER
IN ONE SPOT IT'S NUMBER ONE NO.
TWO DRY CLEANER SITES ARE
NOTORIOUSLY DIFFICULT.
I'M SURE THEY'RE VERY STRICTLY
FOLLOWED WITH FEDERAL AND STATE
LAW.
I'M SURE IT WAS AN ENORMOUS
SLOG TO CLEAN IT UP IF THE
DEVELOPER WAS PROPOSING THE
PROJECT THAT HE WENT THROUGH
THE RINGER ONCE AND IS NOW
COMING BACK HAS GONE THROUGH
THE DISTRICT COMMISSION.
IT'S A VACANT PROPERTY.
PEOPLE'S SENSITIVITIES.
THEY LIVE NEXT TO ERM CLEANERS
WHICH WAS PROBABLY VERY
CONVENIENT FOR WHITE SHIRTS AND
PEOPLE USED TO GET THEM STARTED
BUT YOU KNOW YOU'RE LIVING NEXT
TO A CLEANER.
THIS IS IF ANYTHING ELSE A BIG
IMPROVEMENT OVER LIVING NEXT TO
A DRY CLEANER PLACE.
IT'S A REALLY NICE BUILDING I
THINK THAT IT'S NICE THAT
SOMEBODY IS WILLING TO SLOG
THROUGH THIS FOR YEARS TO BE
ABLE TO GET TO ROUNDING THE
HOME PLATE ON SOMETHING THAT IS
GOING TO REALLY IMPROVE THIS
PART OF THE CITY.
AND GIVEN ALL THAT, I WILL BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THIS
REGARDING SENSITIVITIES ABOUT
FENCES OFTEN DURING
CONSTRUCTION THERE ARE
DIFFERENT REQUIREMENTS YOU
CONSTRUCTION CODES FOR PUTTING
UP ONE TYPE OF FENCE DURING
CONSTRUCTION IF THE NEIGHBOR'S
FENCE HAS BEEN DAMAGED, THAT'S
AN ISSUE SHE CAN TAKE UP WITH
THE PEOPLE DOING THE
CONSTRUCTION AGAIN I RECKON
FENCE FOR IT BUT I DON'T THINK
THAT IN ANY WAY THE GATES IN MY
IN MY OPINION A NEED FOR THIS
NICE BUILDING AND KUDOS TO A
DEVELOPER WHO IS WILLING TO PUT
YEARS INTO SOMETHING LIKE THIS
AND SLOG THROUGH ALL THESE
ENORMOUS AMOUNTS OF REGULATIONS
TO GET TO THIS SPOT.
SO I'M GLAD IT'S DONE AND I'M
WILLING TO PUSH IT DOWN INTO
HOME PLATE AND I'LL BE VOTING
FOR IT IF I GET MY PHONE THREE
.
YES, YOU DID.
I DID.
YES.
I THINK I'M LOSING PROPERTY ON
THIS DEAL FRANKLY NO.
>> ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
WE'RE READY FOR A MOTION.
I'LL MAKE MOTION.
>> THANK YOU, DAVE.
I DO WANT TO SAY THAT IN TERMS
OF PROPERTY LINES AND THINGS
LIKE THAT, THIS IS NOT A FORUM
TO TO ADJUDICATE THOSE ISSUES
AND THERE ARE PROPER FORUMS IF
SOMEBODY THINKS THAT THERE ARE
SOME PROPERTY LINE ISSUES I
WOULD IN ENCOURAGE THEM EITHER
VIEWERS AT HOME OR HERE ON SITE
TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY.
>> I'LL MAKE THE MOTION ZEBA
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO ONE TWO
SIX THIRTY SOUTH ASHLEY IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF FIFTEEN
FEET IN WIDTH FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TWENTY POINT FOUR PUBLIC
PARK AND RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT OFFERS.
THE VARIANCE WILL RUN NORTH
ALONG THE WESTERN PLOT LINE FOR
A LENGTH OF FORTY TWO FEET FROM
THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
PROPERTY.
THE VARIANCE ENABLES THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A FIVE HUNDRED
FORTY FOUR SQUARE FOOT DETACHED
GARAGE TO BE BUILT IN THE
REQUIRED BUFFER OF THE REAR
YARD.
>> THE PROJECT IS TO BE BUILT
PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU JULIE.
CHRISTINA YES PATTI YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES TODD YES DHARMA
YES.
JULIE YES DAVE.
>> I'VE YES.
>> THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING ON WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
>> NEW BUSINESS REPORTS FROM
COUNCIL DHARMA WELL MAYBE YOU
NOTICED OUR AGENDA WAS RATHER
SHORT AND IT'S BECAUSE MUM I'M
JUST GOING TO SAY IT'S BECAUSE
CITY COUNCIL PASSED THE UDC
CHANGE ABOUT NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES SO WE REVISED THE
STANDARDS FOR ALTERATIONS TO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES SO
THAT AS LONG AS IT DOESN'T
INCREASE THE NONCONFORMITY IT
DOES NOT NEED TO COME BEFORE
THIS BODY CAN BE
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED.
SO WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT
FOR THE WHOLE TWO YEARS I'VE
BEEN ON THE SPOT AND WE DID IT.
IT'S TIME WE CAN SPEND TOGETHER
.
ALL RIGHT.
COMMUNICATION WE NOTED THE
THREE EMAILS THAT WE RECEIVED
PUBLIC COMMENT IF THERE'S
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK TO THE ZIBA ON
ANY MATTER, NOW IS YOUR CHANCE
YOU MAY COME FORWARD AND SPEAK
FOR THREE MINUTES OR IF
ACCESSING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE AH USE THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON.
THERE ARE NO CALLS.
THANK YOU JAN WITH THAT DO I
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
THANK YOU PADDY.
SUPPORT FROM DHARMA ALL IN
FAVOR SAY AYE OPPOSED WE ARE
ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE